---
layout: post
author: Isaak Getz
tags: [travel]
title: the most remote place I've ever been
published: true
---

During my final year of college, my friend Kyle and I made the impulsive
decision to book flights to Colombia to visit the Amazon rainforest - about 10
days before said flights departed. Not the most last-minute flight I've bought,
but still a pretty ambitious timeline considering the destination. We
immediately started scrambling to get the necessary vaccines, anti-malarial
medications, and supplies.

<!-- TODO: write about Mexico city layover -->

Our first stop was Bogota, the capital.

We landed in Leticia, and the heat and humidity immediately hit like a truck - a
marked contrast to the cool air of Bogota. The airport is close enough to the
town that you can walk between them, which we did. It's definitely a novel
experience to do that; there aren't too many places you can.

After decompressing at our hostel for a minute, we started wandering around the
town. This was quite the perspective-shifting experience for me, as things were
incredible different there. Here's part of the town we walked through:

<img src="/assets/images/amazon/leticia-houses.jpg" alt="Houses in Leticia"
width="400" />

Due to massive seasonal fluctuations in water levels, many structures are built
on stilts like these houses.

Eventually, we made our way to a busy market area down by the river, and
got stopped by a friendly dude named Juan Carlos. He wanted to take us out on
the river for sunset. Initially we were wary, but eventually decided to take him
up on his offer. We walked out onto a dock-like structure through a maze of
precariously-balanced wooden planks, where he had a small boat waiting. Juan
slowly motored us out into the Amazon, but first pulled alongside an isolated
shack alongside the river. For a heart-stopping second, I thought we'd screwed
up, and were about to be robbed. It turned out we were just stopping to grab a
two-liter soda bottle filled with gas. We reached the middle of the river,
briefly crossing into Peru, and listened to Juan tell us about the river, the
surrounding area, and life in Leticia. I followed along as best I could (we were
exclusively speaking in Spanish), and was encouraged to discover I wasn't
completely lost. 

<img src="/assets/images/amazon/juan-carlos-boat.jpg" alt="Juan Carlos' boat"
width="400" />

Wandering through Leticia was a really interesting experience. There's
definitely a tourist presence, but nothing like most other places I've been.
Tourism here just feels a little different, and almost all the tourists speak
Spanish.

The next morning, we woke up and headed down to the docks again to take another
boat down the river to a small town called Santa Sofia. There aren't too many
roads in the area (in fact, Leticia is only accessible by plane or boat), and
traveling on the river is the main way people seemed to get around. After a
pleasant few hours on the river, we ended up getting off the boat and walking to
the town with Francisco, a guy close to our own age who happened to be the mayor
of Santa Sofia and four other surrounding communities. He told us a little bit
about the communities there and we learned just how small Santa Sofia actually
is, with a population of only 800 people.

Stepping into the village itself almost felt like going back in time, with 
modern touches - like a cell tower - that seemed strangely incongruous with the
otherwise simple surroundings. We later learned that this cell tower only
provided coverage during certain hours of the day, when the power was on. It was
an eye-opening experience to be somewhere where electricity was a luxury not
taken for granted.

As dusk started to fall in the jungle, it was time to make the last part of our
journey to the reserve itself. With flashlights in hand, we made our way to a
small boat pulled up against an offshoot of the river that ran near the town. We
loaded our backpacks and ourselves into the boat, and we were off. By this time,
it was quite dark, and the huge trees surrounding us cast eerie shadows as we
wound our way through this narrow side channel of the Amazon. The chirp of
insects was occasionally punctuated by yells of "abajo!" as we ducked underneath
low-hanging branches and vines. At times, the jungle was so dense it felt like
we were traveling through a tunnel, and I worried our boat would get stuck.
Eventually, our guides pulled the boat up to the beginning of a narrow path
through the trees. We changed into heavy-duty rubber boots, and hiked through
the (by this time, pitch-black) jungle for a while longer until we reached the
hostel. Between the incredibly foreign surroundings and the darkness, this whole
journey had felt incredibly surreal.

I'm always amazed at the variety of fruits and vegetables that exist beyond
what's common in the United States. We ate a delicious fruit called "sapote",
which tasted like a combination of a mango and a pumpkin. Who even knew that
existed?


It was finally time for our real adventure. Before beginning our trek in
earnest, we prayed with our guides for protection at some of the largest trees
I'd ever seen - guardians of the jungle. We also stopped for a little vine
climbing.

<img src="/assets/images/amazon/tree-climbing.jpg" alt="Our camp" width="400" />

We also learned that a certain type of ant is an excellent natural insect
repellent. We found thousands of these covering their home, a structure made of
hardened mud attached to a tree.


After such a long walk in the rain, this was some of the best food I've tasted
(also, seriously impressive that our guide managed to start a fire in these
conditions).

<img src="/assets/images/amazon/cooking.jpg" alt="Our camp" width="400" />

The amount of water here is truly wild. With only a few hours of rain, the river
we camped next to rose at least a meter, if not more. Here's a picture:

<img src="/assets/images/amazon/camp-river.jpg" alt="Our camp" width="400" />

And a glimpse into our camp setup:

<img src="/assets/images/amazon/camp-1.jpg" alt="Our camp" width="400" />

We had another solid dinner of chicken and rice, although I have to say, it was
a little concerning eating chicken 36+ hours into a backpacking trip without
refrigeration... oh well, my digestive problems didn't manifest until the plane
ride home, so can't complain. (Can't say the same for Kyle though... poor guy.)
He tells me getting up five times in the middle of the night in the middle of
the Amazon rainforest is not pleasant, and comes with serious risk of being
eaten by god-knows-what.

On our way back to the reserve, the incessant rain had completely flooded the
trail we originally took. After quite a lot of backtracking and more than a few
false starts, we found a path that wasn't too flooded.

<!-- <img src="/assets/images/amazon/jonathon-wading.jpg" alt="Jonathon wading" width="400" /> -->

<!-- <img src="/assets/images/amazon/wading.jpg" alt="Me wading" width="400" /> -->

<style>
.column {
    float: left;
    width: 45%;
    padding: 5px;
}
.row::after {
  content: "";
  clear: both;
  display: table;
}
</style>

<div class="row">
  <div class="column">
    <img src="/assets/images/amazon/wading.jpg" alt="Me wading"
    style="width:100%" />
  </div>
  <div class="column">
    <img src="/assets/images/amazon/jonathon-wading.jpg" alt="Jonathon wading"
    style="width:100%" />
  </div>
</div>


I got a compliment from one of the other travelers for not being scared to speak
Spanish incorrectly, so I guess that's a win?



Well, that's all for now. This was definitely one of the wilder,
perspective-shifting travel experiences I've had.



